Hi, my name is Joseph Kerstein, I'm a professor at Yeshiva University,
the Sy Syms School of Business, and I'm here with my colleague today,
Professor Avri Ravid, the foremost expert in the economics and finance
of the movie and media industries, to discuss the 90th Academy Awards,
also known as the Oscars.
Are there any indicators that a movie will win an Oscar for Best Picture?
The Best Picture Academy Award winning are correlated, very highly correlated
with the nominations for Best Director and Best Screenplay.
For this year, for example, The Post and the Darkest Hour,
there are no nominations for the director or the screenplay
and therefore it's less likely that they will win.
Most of the other movies have either the screenwriter or the director nominated, or both.
How does winning an Oscar, though, affect the winning movie's profitability?
The truth is that most Oscar winning movies are not real money makers.
Sequels and family movies, and preferably both,
are really what you should do if you want to make money.
I know that this year, Wonder Woman was certainly one of the most profitable movies,
but it's not even nominated, I don't think, for Best Picture.
Right. So that's a good example.
Yes.
And here are the all male nominees.
(crowd gasps)
The question comes up now, about the different initiatives that we're now seeing,
the major changes in social issues, with the so-called Time's Up initiative,
the Me Too movement. What impact can you see in terms of winning?
Academy members are people, and they're definitely influenced by considerations
such as, it's too white, and we have to have diversity.
A lot of talk about the fact that women directors did not win.
There's just one case, I believe, that a woman won an Academy Award for Directing.
Every year, and it has been a consistent trend with no changes over the years,
which is a little surprising, about ten percent of the new directors are women. And no more.
and so that of course explains, partially, why they don't get awards,
because there aren't that many of them. The other thing, it could be that
there's some - we have some evidence that could support discrimination,
but we're too early into this research to be able to provide definitive answers.
The fact that there's only ten percent women could be self selection.
They're discouraged from coming into the... so we don't,
so it's hard for researchers sometimes to distinguish between that
Right.
And the Oscar goes to
Leonardo DiCaprio.
(announcer) This is the first Oscar and 6th nomination for Leonardo DiCaprio.
Should the studios simply focus on hiring Academy Award winners?
Does it really improve the profitability of a movie?
The answer is no, not necessarily. Because there is no correlation between
Academy Award winners and the success of movies.
Not that actors that win the Oscars don't get more money. They do get more money.
But for the studios to hire them, it's not a profit making proposition necessarily.
So therefore, what is the benefit, then, of hiring, paying someone more, perhaps,
because they won the Academy Award
if they're not gonna necessarily increase the box office take?
It's an insurance policy. For the movies that did poorly,
there is some bump in revenues if you have a star.
So if I hire Julia Roberts and the movie flops, I can say, oh, who knew, Julia Roberts?
If you hire me as a star, and the movie flops, everyone will say, what an idiot,
Avri Ravid, who knows who he is? That's why the movie flops.
Executives get turned over very quickly in the movie industry, so they need this kind of insurance.
This year is probably one of the first years I remember where I actually saw a movie on cable
that is up for Best Picture. The Get Out movie, is it?
That raises a question about the optimal release strategy for movies,
and is it affected, or how is it affected, by Netflix and Amazon?
People don't necessarily know this. You can only be nominated
for an Academy Award in any category if you have a theatrically released film.
However, Netflix and Amazon could certainly produce a movie that will be released theatrically
for a week or two, and then it's off to the races.
In terms of release strategy, there are several approaches, and nobody knows what's the best.
One approach is to release it late, and then everybody remembers it.
Who remembers what happened in January?
Another possibility is what you said, which is now becoming possible,
which is to release a movie early on and then just show it in different release windows,
such as, release it on TV -
Hope it comes to cable.
- yeah, cable,
and hope that people pay attention.