You're gonna need newsprint and charcoal to start.
It's a foundations level course so it's meant to introduce foundational drawing skills.
We have students from the array of skills levels
from someone who tells me on the first day they can't draw a stick figure
to someone who's been being tutored since they were seven or eight.
So this is our continuous tone still life.
We can get that whole range of value from black to the white of the paper.
Value is the lightness of the thing you're drawing
so for example, here is a very dark value
as opposed to here where there's a very light value.
We use light in this project to show the shape of something
and try to make it three-dimensional and really come alive.
Here, there's no actual line drawn.
You could tell the difference between the background and the skull
just because of the difference in value.
This project, you do not have to draw the entire still life.
That's a little different than our approach to our other gestural projects from observation
where you had to include the entire still life within the bounds of the paper.
For this project, you do have the option to zoom in and crop.
So we're going to be trying out some different options today through thumbnail sketches.
Just a miniature version of a possible composition for your finished study.
It's like a quick drawing to get a sense of the objects.
If I'm not gonna draw the entire table of objects, then I can't - I have to stop somewhere.
The top half of the head got cropped
and a lot of the bone, like the enamel and stuff.
You are in a lucky spot, because you have two interesting views of both halves of the still life.
Rather than giving students a list of instructions and saying, "Okay, follow these instructions
and then I will anaylze and assess your work,"
What I feel like is a much more productive model for the student
is to give them feedback in the moment
so that they are acquiring skills, acquiring understanding, as they work.
They also gain a lot more confidence that way.
Traci's standing there, she's like, "I'm telling you, you can do it, you totally got this,"
and she's like, "just take it one step at a time."
So would you want it tilted at a higher angle?
Cause then it blocks the wine glasses
and the wine glasses have those really nice shadows from the horn.
We have this cow skull, and it's a complex form
but if they're only focusing on where the shadows fall
and where the highlights fall
and those are specific shapes that are a specific distance apart
that have a specific relationship to one another
they'll end up creating a drawing that looks like a cow skull.
I think it definitely helps with just opening your eyes and seeing the world.
Now when I'm talking to someone, when I see the shadows of their faces
I'm always like, "Oh, there's the core shadow, the darkest part."
To look at something and it exists in three-dimensional reality
and translate that naturalistically and realistically to a two-dimensional plane
takes a lot of focus and attention to detail
and I think that builds skills that, regardless
of if you continue in the visual arts or you go into another field
are important.