Over 79% of students at Yeshiva University find some form of scholarship
or financial aid to help them attend college.
Unlike other universities Yeshiva Universitytakes into account
that many of our families attend private schools.
As you prepare for your college education
you may be wondering how to apply for financial aid and what your options are.
This brief video will go through the process
of applying for financial aid at Yeshiva University.
Financial aid is defined as “funds that are provided to students
 and families to help pay for postsecondary educational expenses”.
They can be in the forms of scholarships, grants, loans,
employment opportunities, and tax benefits.
It can come from the government, civic organizations,
employers, the colleges themselves and the community .
Financial Aid is dependent on your Financial Need,
which is calculated by subtracting the expected family contribution from the Cost of Attendance.
The Cost of Attendance varies widely from college to college.
It is composed of direct and indirect costs such as tuition and housing
or books, supplies, and other personal expenses related to college attendance.
The Expected Family Contribution stays the same regardless of college
and, based on a federal formula, is the amount the family is reasonably expected to contribute.
That federal formula is created by filling out the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid.
It takes into account the number of people in the household,
how many of them are in college,
adjusted gross income for the year, all investments, assets, and business value.
Investments can include real estate, trust funds, stock options, and education savings accounts.
Investments do not include the home you live in, life insurance, and retirement plans.
The FAFSA awards most aid through a “first-come, first-serve” basis,
so it’s always best to submit the FAFSA as soon as possible.
The earlist you can complete the FAFSA is October 1.
Yeshiva University understands that many of our students and parents
have additional expenses that the FAFSA doesn’t cover.
That’s why YU created the Private School Tuition Expense Form
that lets you tell us how much you spend on your K-12 education.
We are one of the few universities that takes this important expense into account.
In addition, Yeshiva University offers a number of merit based scholarships,
from the Dean’s Scholarships to the Honors Scholarships.
We work with you to make YU affordable for you.
When there is serious need, Yeshiva University will even offer a housing grant
to help the student with the cost of living on campus.
Our team of dedicated staff in the admissions and financial aid departments
will work closely to allow you to attend Yeshiva University.
In total, Yeshiva University distributes over $42 million in aid
to make the dream of attending YU a reality.
If you have any additional questions about the process of
applying for financial aidor how YU can help you with the process,
please don’t hesitate to reach out to our Financial Aid and Admissions staff.
We look forward to seeing you at Yeshiva University.