This conference explores the changes that we are encountering in our world
from the standpoint of four different contexts:
Leadership, Marketplace, Education, and Values.
Standing still is going backwards and if we don't see where the world is going
we're not going to be able to prepare for how we get there.
The way that our community has conversation now is, to a certain extent,
very very different than it was five or ten years ago.
So much of modernity is a sense of alienation. We create our own bubbles.
We create our own profiles with our own friends who are all like-minded.
I think events like today are part of the solution.
Gathering in person, having these conversations face to face.
It allows for more nuance than social media might.
Watching the "wow" reaction of the participants -
suddenly they were encountering a level of depth and breadth and profundity
that they had not seen anywhere else in their experience,
where they would go up to the speakers
and they would have an opportunity to further the discussion.
Yeshiva University has a proven record of making sure that we don't slide by
that we hold our Torah, our community, our integrity, responsible
to address all of the important questions.
God is calling on us, on Yeshiva University, and all associated with it.
Now is the moment when humanity has needed a Jewish message.
This is certainly our goal at Yeshiva University –
to be a bridge and an accelerator for our students to emerge as full adults
ready to succeed and stand strong in the world of Tomorrow.
The initiatives that Rabbi Ari Berman is putting in
will future-proof YU and get our kids the education they need
and the careers they need moving forward.
It's essential that as an institution that is so storied,
that has achieved so much in its history,
to then take that forward into the next generation.
It's essential to everything that we do as educators and I find it inspiring
and really humbling to be able to participate in a conference of this sort.